PROJECT       : DIAMOND BLOCKCHAIN

AIM           : TO IMPLEMENT A SECURE NETWORK INORDER TO TRACK THE HISTORY OF DIAMONDS AND ITS TRANSACTIONS

PLATFORM USED : IBM HYPERLEDGER

LANGUAGE USED : JAVASCRIPT

CONSENSUS USED: PBFT

PROTOCOL USED : JSON FORMAT

NODES REQUIRED : 8

OBJECTIVE 
  
 Tracking a diamond from the mine to the retail store is clearly a tricky process, and is far from perfect.  Instead of recording asset 
 tracking from owner to owner, Everledger is combining data from insurance companies, police departments and certification houses. The 
 goal is to provide an accurate database that is available to everyone, on the blockchain.
  
TECHNOLOGY BEHIND
  
 The Hyperledger Project is a collaborative effort created to advance blockchain technology by identifying and addressing important 
 features for a cross-industry open standard for distributed ledgers that can transform the way business transactions are conducted 
 globally.
 We use this technology as our platform for diamond transactions.IBM also offers professional services to help customers create and host 
 their own Hyperledger apps.For IBM’s Systems group the Linux Foundation’s Hyperledger is the fastest growing Open Source project it has 
 ever been involved with. While in many sectors blockchain represents both an opportunity and a threat to established players 
 (think Banking, Insurance, Stock Trading), there are a number of industries where it can be built and supplied now. One such is the
 diamond industry
 
PROCESS AS A WHOLE
  
 Diamond blockchain is being used to supply diamond provenance/pedigree validation. Each diamond is encoded with a digital barcode
 as it’s mined, and as the diamond is processed, cut and sent to wholesalers/retailers with each of those transactions maintained in the 
 blockchain. One can easily validate the origin, clarity, color, carrot and cut of a diamond by examining it’s transaction history of the
 blockchain.
 
 
EASY ACCESS TO BLOCKCHAIN

Access to the blockchain can be made easier if each member in a blockchain uses an app which deals with all the transactions taking 
place.If each user has an app, the transaction app, which connects to the transaction p2p network. For most users, the app is a normal 
web app. Each user funds their own app with a small amount of bitcoin. In order to download content, the user pays a very, very small
amount of bitcoin to the peers on the network. This incentivizes people to keep the app open so as to keep servicing the other users. 
Furthermore, when a user upvotes content, that sends a small amount of bitcoin to the author of that content, thus incentivizing the 
production of good content. If all the content is authenticated, we can be reasonably sure most payments are going to the right people.


SECURITY OF THE APP

This app can be used as the most secure solution since it only deals with the members of the blockchain.An outsider cannot use this app 
since he has to pay a small amount of bit coin.The ultimate aim is to make it secure and tamperfree and this aim can be achieved by 
using this transaction app.


BEGINNER OF A TRANSACTION

Our project deals with the transaction diamonds which mainly includes 8 roles from the miner to the consumer. Right from the mining 
stage a diamond gets it’s inputs which are to be added to the blockchain. But the miner may not be able to enter the details of the 
diamond to the blockchaain, in that case the next role ie, shopkeeper can add the details. Likewise in each stage of transaction, 
the second role can add the details. For instance consider the next stage, the transaction from the shopkeeper to the dealer. 
Here the dealer can be made enable to enter the details.Finally when a customer buys a diamond from the jewellery shop, he can add the 
details to the blockchain.

AUTHENTICATION

All client requests require digital signatures.Request to use the API must be authenticated by providing the API key and secret key, 
both of which can be accessed on the User Account  page.
  
  
HASHING AND VERIFICATION

A transaction can be verified by using a hash function and it can be obtained by converting the geographical coordinates and timestamp 
to string.
   for example ,
                 function isDate(myDate) {
    return myDate.constructor.toString().indexOf("Date") > -1;
}
 
 JavaScript variables can be converted to a new variable and another data type:
*By the use of a JavaScript function
*Automatically by JavaScript itself

  The global method String() can convert numbers to strings.
It can be used on any type of numbers, literals, variables, or expressions:
Example
String(x)         // returns a string from a number variable x
String(123)       // returns a string from a number literal 123
String(100 + 23)  // returns a string from a number from an expression

The Date method toString() does the same.
Example
Date().toString()   // returns "Thu Jul 17 2014 15:38:19 GMT+0200 (W. Europe Daylight Time)"

The global method String() can convert dates to strings.
String(Date())      // returns "Thu Jul 17 2014 15:38:19 GMT+0200 (W. Europe Daylight Time)".

HANDLING CONFLICTING REQUESTS

*At least give a warning message in the user.
*Mark the transaction somehow as inactive.
*Try to recreate the transaction, using inputs that do exist.
*Automatically try to recreate the transactions.

STATE CHANGES WHEN A TRANSACTION IS ACCEPTED

Transfer of ownership and the current value of the diamond changes as the diamond get transacted from one block to another.


TRACKING HISTORY OF DIAMOND

A diamond can be tracked with the help of its unique Id number that is obtained from the trading section.But for entering the
transaction the person must be a member of the diamond blockchain.


API'S USED

User can  provide an extended public key (xPub) and thus a unique, unused corresponding address for customers for transaction 
can be generated. Users will be  notified about transactions to that address instantly using a callback URL of  choosing.

URL       : http://localhost:3000/api/v2/create

Method    : POST or GET

$password :The password for the new blockchain. Must be at least 10 characters in length.

$api_code :An API code with create blockchain permission.

$priv     : A private key to add to the transaction.

$label    :A label to set for the first address in the transaction Alphanumeric only. 

$email    :An email to associate with the new transaction i.e. the email address of the user. 
 
 
 



